We cannot go back there.
Everybody? Everybody! Come, gather 'round.
Come.
Gather 'round, everybody.
I have something i must tell you.
Now, listen.
I want to tell you things about earth that you haven't heard before.
Things that are ugly.
Things that are wrong.
Things that cannot be lived with.
There is violence on earth.
There are hatreds.
And jealousy.
Now, listen to me, listen to me, and listen carefully.
The earth is a place we do not know.
The earth is a place we have never lived in.
It is a society we do not belong in.
If we leave here we will die, we will die! We'll be committing suicide if we go back to earth.
We will die of a misery we have never experienced before- loneliness.
Loneliness, like animals in a zoo.
We do not belong there.
We do not belong to his kind.
We do not belong there.
We do not belong there.
Captain benteen? Why don't you let your children vote on it? Only if they know what's waiting for them.
Only if they know that the earth is not a garden.
Never was a garden! And it never will be a garden.
Fair enough.
Fair enough.
Then i'll tell you what earth is.
It's a race of men, struggling for survival.
Just as you have survived.
And captain benteen is quite right when he tells you it isn't a place of all beauty.
We may yet have wars and there still remains prejudice.
And i suppose as long as men walk there will be angry men, jealous men, unforgiving men.
But it has one thing that you don't have.
One thing.
It lets every man be his own master.
There won't be any captain benteens there for you.
There won't be anybody to tell you when to eat, sleep and meet.
There won't be anyone to tell you when to dance, what to sing, or how to play.
Instead of thirst, you may feel hunger; instead of heat, cold.
But you'll be men and women.
You won't be sheep.
You won't be a kindergarten.
And when you pray to god, his name won't be benteen.
A vote now, captain.
And the majority wins.
Those of you who want to be on board ten hours from now to head back to earth raise your hands.
Let loose now, captain.
For everyone's sake, let loose! May god help you.
May god help you all.