Tomorrow we leave.
Tomorrow you go back to mother earth.
Back to modern times.
Though i honestly wonder whether it'll be to your liking.
Because the way you'll be lionized when you get back to earth you know, you're referred to in the press as "the lost pioneers." They'll make quite a thing out of you when you land.
I suppose it's inevitable.
I guess that seems to be your fate.
And wherever your people settle, they'll be met by brass bands, welcoming committees, keys to the city.
Yeah, the government has had inquiries from literally thousands of relatives.
They'll just have time to look into a television camera and then they'll scatter, all over the 50 states.
They won't be scattered, we'll go together.
I was talking about when you get back on earth, captain.
Well, so am i, colonel.
We won't be splitting up.
Not those people, not my people.
We'll stay together.
You mean this is what you've all decided to do? No decision was necessary.
You have asked them, haven't you? Colonel, asking them would be exactly like asking a child if he wants some more ice cream.
They're just like children, colonel.
The majority of them are adults.
Chronologically, yes.
They range in age from six months to 60 years.
But psychologically and socially, they're children.
I've kept these people alive and together all these years.
When we get back to earth, i will simply have to continue the process.
Have you told them this? There's no need to tell them, they know it already.
You mean they know that after 30 years of waiting, after 30 years of living in a compound, that they're going to travel a billion miles just to walk single file into another one.
They wouldn't have it any other way.
Colonel, you don't understand, and i don't blame you, that these people are children.
And to transport them a billion miles and then land them in a strange place and abandon them would be an act of cruelty.
It would be a crime.
Would you do me a small favor, captain? Of course.
Ask them.
Outside the cities on earth, there are suburban areas.
This was a major living change that took place in the 1950s: Decentralization of the population area.
There's certain aspects of earth living we should touch on.
We will not concern ourselves with colder areas, the northeastern states and some upper sections of the great plains.
Captain, i want to live in wisconsin.
So you better tell us about frostbite.
What about the state of oregon, captain? That's where betty and i want to settle.
I can remember the forests there.
What about the eastern seaboard, captain? The finger lake district in upper new-york state, captain? Is there still a new-york city? You don't understand.
I'd like to make one thing very clear.
You'll all be able to meet your relatives and possibly visit with them for even a week or more.
We'll stay together as a community in whatever land grant we can get or whatever prescribed area can be arranged.
I'd also like to assure you that- and, i hope, put all your fears to rest- i'm going to continue as your guide and consultant.
I guarantee none of you will want for my help or advice.
Captain? Julie and i julie and i were planning on farming.
That's a wonderful idea, a fine idea.
Of course we'll farm.
As we farmed here, only better- more rainfall.
Remember, one sun, not two.
You don't have to shield crops from the sun.
The sun helps them.
You'll farm, al, certainly we'll farm.
Julie has relatives in the state of washington.
We'll settle there.
It would be too cold for you there, al.
It would be too cold for all of you.
