Hope i'm not intruding, captain.
Of course not.
I was giving the weight requirements.
We'll handle that tomorrow.
When i heard you were meeting, i brought engle and rafferty.
You've all been asking so many questions about earth i thought we'd answer a few more.
The purpose of this meeting is departure problems.
Colonel, my folks were from san-diego.
What's california like? Sunny and warm, most of the time.
Los-angeles is the biggest city in the world now.
I feel that these questions can best be answered at a later time.
Do they still have public schools? Oh, yes.
And they're pretty much the same as they were.
Except they're larger, better-equipped, more adequately staffed.
There's a whole new system of visual aids now.
Many classes are televised.
If a student is learning about, oh we'll say the grand canyon, they do an actual program right there on the scene that's fed into the classroom on a new tape device.
Colonel sloane, are there still major leagues? My dad used to tell me all about baseball and the world series.
Two leagues, same as before.
American and national.
What city has the dodgers now? Still los-angeles.
They came in tenth last season.
After we're finished here, let's improvise a ball and a bat have ourselves a ball game.
It's much too hot for that kind of activity.
We might sing here in the cave we haven't done that in some time.
Why don't we show the colonel the music we can make? Let's let him hear some real harmony.
Two more.
Come on, baby, come on.
That is the universal language, captain.
Baseball? Mm-hmm.
You have a very limited vocabulary, colonel.
Do you have any idea what the temperature is out here right now? Well, not by degrees but certainly by discomfort.
At this time of day it's about 110.
Don't know about your crew members being able to stand that heat, but i do know about my own people.
They're going to suffer for this little athletic event.
For some of the older people, it might be serious.
Aw, it's only a game, benteen.
If they're suffering, my guess is that it might be worth it.
